So we have our little state map because
again, before we get the WebSockets passed
in, we've used those we've listened
to those in this new paradigm.
We no longer do that, so we kind of have
to make some basic changes to our program.
Let's click this, export,
I can type on close.
We're gonna have a web socket.
I'm gonna call this thing a WS.
Cuz right now we don't really have it
defined, and I'm gonna define WS as
something with ascend that has
a string that returns void, right,
I believe I have to do that.
There we go.
So there we go.
We're gonna keep our web sock
definition super simple at this point.
Also, if you do these kind of things,
sometimes it can make testing really easy
if you wish do that level of testing.
I'd be a little skeptical if you're
doing that level of testing, but
it can make things pretty dang easy.
All right, awesome.
So on close, thank you, Copilot.
I'm gonna get the state.
If this thing happens to exist,
we'll say, hey, this thing's been closed.
Awesome, very, very easy.
Let's see,
what's the other thing we need to do?
We need to do on message.
I believe I actually already have
an on message like function down here.
So I'm gonna just bring that
on message function up here.
We're gonna export it.
We're gonna delete the inside and
we're gonna have a web socket
that's a WS and a string message.
Looks good, yeah, that looks good.
And so we'll grab out the state.
If there is no state,
so for whatever reason,
we got a message from something in
which we're not keeping track of,
which should never happen, but
if this did happen, I'll return.
I mean, I could process,
got a board, we could dump,
we could do something different, but we'll
just assume that this is good enough.
There we go.
We have an on-message function that works
based on a WebSocket, we have on clothes
based on WebSocket, you're probably going,
hey, didn't we just fix a performance
problem by switching from array or
from sets to array.
Why are we using sets now?
I would say this is probably a fine time
to use sets if we've made a good bargain,
meaning that we have great performance win
on WebSockets for a small performance hit
on having to do this lookup every
single message slash unclosed,
find trade-off for me.
I'd say that this is
a perfectly fine trade-off.
All right, now that we've done that,
we're gonna have to go down here and
round the fixes.
First off, get out of here,
we don't need that.
Next off, do we need any of this?
No, we don't, we don't need that.
We just simply need to go ws2state,
set websocket 1, 2 state 1.
And then copilot will probably
do the other one for me.
Set web socket 2 to state 2.
Change these to something that
just has the send method, right?
We're not being very prescriptive
here on the web socket anymore.
Awesome.
So this looks pretty good to me.
We have all the mappings and
then we have to do one more thing,
which is at the end of our game, we can't
forget to delete this things out, right.
So I'm gonna delete out.
There we go,
we'll delete out player one, player two,
make sure our map isn't just
growing too big, awesome.
And then finally, take our game runner,
turn that to that, and
I'm pretty sure that is everything.
Let's see, we have no more diagnostics.
I think we're gonna do this first try.
So there we go.
So we've made that pretty simple update.
I've updated our actual server
to be using something like this.
And we are now updating our actual game
to be using this different kind of look.
So all I have to do here is obviously
import these two from game.
Fantastic, feeling pretty
excited about this.
If you can't keep up again, the point
is that I want to actually spend as
little time on the code as possible, cuz I
think that this is the most boring part of
the entire presentation, is the code.
The exciting part is how did
we come to these conclusions?
And again, if you forgot,
the conclusion really was memory.
And I saw some in the performance and
the gut intuition that JavaScript is
just never gonna be as fast as C+++.
We can process this out
of band of JavaScript.
So that's very exciting.
All right, so now that we've done that,
I'll do a little, make sure that we don't,
okay, I did accidentally have
that other server still running.
Somewhere around there,
so we'll go npm run test.
We'll make sure I haven't
broken the program.
If I broke the program, that's genuinely
too bad because it's just like.
Look at that, it's working, let's go.
All right, so this should all work out
just fine, we shouldn't have any problems.
I'll wait it out just to really make sure,
that way you all believe me.
So the WS package, for those that don't
know, the WS package is fully JavaScript.
It uses full internals of node and
everything,
whereas UWeb sockets is gonna be fully
C++ and only having the JavaScript for
handing out frames,
which to me is as good as it gets.
I'm happy about that.
All right, so
we know that our integration tests work.
We know that our little tests work.
We are now using WebSockets.
We no longer have a bunch of promises.
So let's see if this
UWebSocket runs better.
So I'm gonna do the exact same
thing that I have been doing, but
it might be a little bit more
fun to start off first with.
Let's just check the memory charts and
see, do we make a difference there?
Let's just I wanna just
kind of look a little bit,
see if we've done anything there.
So I'm gonna go tsc, we're gonna inspect,
and what did we run last time with?
We ran with 2000.
Let's keep on going with 2000.
So we're gonna run this, awesome.
And so I'm gonna start with a quick
performance grab, make sure we're all run.
Okay, awesome.
We're gonna grab this for ten seconds and
we're gonna look at this and just see if
anything's changed on the performance
side, my guess is not a lot's changed.
If we've done our job right,
update should be taking a very
large portion of the time.
We're gonna go over to memory.
I'll start another recording.
We'll come back here.
We'll look at update is taking
an even larger chunk of time.
So this is good.
It looks like it's just update and run and
on message, which is doing that json
decoding and pretty much everything
else is not taking a lot of much time.
So we're now really taking our library and
just making it smaller and smaller and
smaller.
So if you had a server like this, the
amount of stuff you could put on it now.
Analytics, any sort of extra logging for
debugging anything else you now have so
much more room for because we made our one
program excessively better running than it
was before.
I'll let this keep running for
just a second longer because again,
the longer you let it run, the better.
Now remember from here to here
is Websocket or WS shall I say?
>> I just wanna comment that I really
like your take about giving yourself more
headroom for other things.
For instance, on front-and-masters.com,
how fast it is we wanted to AB test
something and that AB testing libraries,
extremely slow.
So we were able to use it just kind of
targeted and I don't think it really
impacted the user performance too much
because our site is so fast that like,
okay, using this in one case,
fine, we were able to rip it out.
Keep going but I feel like just having
an emphasis on performance gives you that
headroom to add observability or logging
or testing or these kinds of things.
>> People don't realize how
important those things are and
if you pay yourself now, you pay yourself
later when you need to make a change.
Cuz inevitably someone adds rammed,
someone adds low dash, someone adds all
these extra things running, and then your
program inevitably gets slow again, right.
There is no such thing as programs that
don't go through these cycles where
everything's really great and
then overtime becomes really crappy and
usually crappiness is not, we just need
to simply swap out just this library and
things will be faster.
And so it's really just having this
mentality of everything you do should be
done really well.
Do you really need to create all these
objects, do you really need to be doing
all these things because if you
take that mentality through,
you will always be programming
yourself pretty thin.
And then as time goes on,
it will remain pretty thin and
then you'll just keep on having that
headroom for an extended period of time.
It's really nice to do, now look at it.
We've literally taken
out the middle section.
That entire thing is just gone.
This is what it was from here to here,
was that?
Now it's completely gone.
We actually do feel like something
else better is happening.
All memory is being managed
within C++ except for
the array buffer that comes out,
which we just stringify.
And so that is actually making a big,
big difference.
And on the performance, you'll notice that
we just really don't see stuff other than
fast buffer is array, there's just
not a lot that's happening anymore.
We really only have just these three are
the last things that are doing anything on
our program.
So for fun,
let's do third optimization 500.
Even though I don't think 500 is even
gonna be in our realm of looking at
anymore, we've made a program so fast that
500 is just not even testing our server.
And then we'll start off with 500.
So here we go.
We'll run a third optimization,
which contains optimization number two.
So don't forget that.
So let's just open up one more.
All right, look how small that text is.
Okay, so
this would be third optimization 500.
That doesn't look great.
That did not look great at all.
Yeah, so, Weird.
So for whatever reason,
it looks like we're having a huge
regression and things being ran.
So that doesn't, that seems confusing,
are you running the right thing?
We should be running the right thing.
Okay, we're going down.
Regret sunsky skill issue,
this could be a skill issue.
We're gonna keep on going though.
Yeah, we're starting to slowly slide down.
That's fine, we'll stop it there.
We'll now go into 1,000.
Again, not an exact science.
Again, always measuring production.
I swear this works.
Okay, for whatever reason this
one's looking way better.
False positive optimizations, can be false
positive optimizations very well could be?
So let this run.
Okay, fantastic.
All right, fantastic.
We did that one, we'll do one more.
We'll do 2,000 now.
And I honestly think we
could probably go up to,
we'd probably see ourselves doing pretty
well into the 3,000s at this point.
So one thing that gets really interesting
is as we get to this point we may not be
giving our server enough load to
actually see, are we making changes?
Are we actually testing it under load or
are we just just measuring
it how it runs normally?
It's still looking pretty good,
it's below our target goal at
the original part of this.
We started off with our boss
recorded at less than 25%.
We're looking less than 25% right
now at a much higher amount.
So pretty happy about that, and so
it doesn't look like it's
made a huge huge difference.
At this one at number two at 2,000
you'll notice that it was at 32.
With our new change we're at 22, okay, so
we're starting to really see benefits as
we're getting towards the higher end.
As we get under load, we're starting to
see something that's a little bit better.
So I'm happy about that.
We're not really seeing much
happening in the lower amounts.
So why is that?
I can't really explain that,
is it local host?
Is it that it really doesn't matter?
I actually have no idea why it does these
things at lower volumes, but at higher
volumes, as we get under pressure, we do
see large percentage changes cuz remember,
33 to 23 is way more impressive
than 60 to 50, right?
Cuz that change is significantly faster.
That's like a what, practically almost,
we're getting close to
a 50% speed up on this.
So very happy about that, fantastic.
C++ is still really good.
Yeah, maybe it's the overhead of C++ in
the smaller amounts actually makes some
level of difference, but as we get bigger,
it just scales better than the JavaScript.
But we have made some good changes here.
We're gonna take third optimization.
We'll put first optimization on top and
see now that we've really
stripped everything else away,
are we gonna start seeing the update
function actually making a difference now?
My guess it will probably
see a difference.